Compile guide for Trainer (#19531)
Lightning-AI/pytorch-lightning: docs/source-pytorch/advanced/compile.rst

.. code-block:: python

    # Enable CUDA Graphs
    compiled_model = torch.compile(model, mode="reduce-overhead")

    # This does the same
    compiled_model = torch.compile(model, options={"triton.cudagraphs": True})

|

**Shape padding:** The specific shape/size of the tensors involved in the computation of your model (input, activations, weights, gradients, etc.) can have an impact on the performance.
With shape padding enabled, ``torch.compile`` can extend the tensors by padding to a size that gives a better memory alignment.
Naturally, the tradoff here is that it will consume a bit more memory.

.. code-block:: python

    # Default is False
    compiled_model = torch.compile(model, options={"shape_padding": True})

You can find a full list of compile options in the `PyTorch documentation <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.compile.html>`_.

----

**************************************
A note about torch.compile in practice
**************************************

In practice, you will find that ``torch.compile`` often doesn't work well and can even be counter-productive.

> Compilation may fail with cryptic error messages that are impossible to debug without help from the PyTorch team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compilation may fail with cryptic error messages that are hard to debug, luckily the PyTorch team is responsive and it's likely that messaging will improve in time.
```

It is also not uncommon that ``torch.compile`` will produce a significantly *slower* model or one with much higher memory usage.

> On top of that, the compilation phase itself can be incredibly slow, taking several minutes to finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a note, the compilation phase itself will take some time, taking up to several minutes.
```

> For these reasons, we recommend that you don't waste too much time trying to apply ``torch.compile`` during development, and rather evaluate its effectiveness toward the end when you are about to launch long-running, expensive experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these reasons, we recommend that you don't invest too much time trying to apply ``torch.compile`` during development, and rather evaluate its effectiveness toward the end when you are about to launch long-running, expensive experiments.
```
